# Exercises in Section 5.4

### 5.4.1

We mentioned in Section 5.4.2 that it is possible to deduce what grammar symbol this state represents based on the LR state in the parsing stack.How do we derive this information?

#### Answer

See Algorithm 4.44

### 5.4.2

Rewrite the following SDT:

A -> A {a} B | A B {b} | 0
B -> B {c} A | B A {d} | 1

Make the basic grammar non-left-recursive.

### 5.4.3 ！

The following SDT evaluates a string of 0s and 1s.It interprets the input symbol string as a positive binary number.

B -> B_1 0 {B.val = 2 * B_1.val}
| B_1 1 {B.val = 2 * B_1.val + 1}
| 1 {B.val = 1}

Rewrite this SDT so that the basic grammar is no longer left-recursive, but can still calculate the same value of B.val for the entire input string.

#### Answer

Extract left common factor

B -> B_1 digit {B.val = 2 * B_1.val + digit.val}
| 1 {B.val = 1}
digit -> 0 {digit.val = 0}
| 1 {digit.val = 1}

In a left-recursive production of the form `A = A a | b`, a is `digit {B.val = 2 * B_1.val + digit.val}` and b is `1`

After eliminating left recursion we get

B -> 1 {A.i = 1} A
A -> digit {A_1.i = 2 * A.i + digit.val} A_1 {A.val = A_1.val}
| ε {A.val = A.i}
digit -> 0 {digit.val = 0}
| 1 {digit.val = 1}

### 5.4.4 ！

Write an L-attributed SDD similar to Example 5.19 for the following production.Each production here represents a common C-like control flow structure.You may need to generate a three-address statement to jump to a certain label L, in which case you can generate the statement goto L.

1. S -> if ( C ) S_1 else S_2
2. S -> do S_1 while ( C )
3. S -> '{' L '}'; L -> L S | ε

Note that any statement in the list may contain a jump instruction from within it to the next statement, so simply generating code sequentially for individual statements is not sufficient.

#### Answer

1. S -> if ( C ) S_1 else S_2

L_1 = new()
C.false = L_1
S_1.next = S.next
S.code = C.code || S_1.code || label || L_1 || S_2.code

2. S -> do S_1 while ( C )

L_1 = new()
C.true = L_1
S.code = label || L_1 || S_1.code || C.code

### 5.4.5

Convert each SDD obtained in Exercise 5.4.4 into an SDT according to the method of Example 5.19.

#### Answer

1. S -> if ( C ) S_1 else S_2

S -> if (     {new L_1; C.false = L_1}
C )      {S_1.next = S.next}
S_1 else
S_2      {S.code = C.code || S_1.code || label || L_1 || S_2.code}

2. S -> do S_1 while ( C )

S -> do           {new L_1}
S_1 while (  {C.true = L_1}
C )          {S.code = label || L_1 || S_1.code || C.code}

### 5.4.6

Modify the SDD in Figure 5.25 so that it contains a composite attribute B.le, the length of a box.The length of the box obtained by juxtaposing two boxes is the sum of the lengths of the two boxes.Then add your new rule to the SDT in Figure 5.26 at the appropriate location.

### 5.4.7

Modify the SDD in Figure 5.25 so that it contains superscript, represented by the operator sup between the boxes.If box B_2 is a superscript of box B_1, then place the baseline of B_2 above the baseline of B_1 so that the distance between the two baselines is 0.6 times the size of B_1.Add new productions and rules to the SDT of Figure 5.26.

#### 5.4.6 和 5.4.7 的解答

1) S -> B               B.ps = 10
B.wd =

2) S -> B_1 B_2         B_1.ps = B.ps
B_2.ps = B.ps
B.wd = B_1.wd + B_2.wd
B.ht = max(B_1.ht, B_2.ht)
B.dp = max(B_1.dp, B_2.dp)

3) B -> B_1 sub B_2     B_1.ps = B.ps
B_2.ps = 0.7 * B.ps
B.wd = B_1.wd + B_2.wd
B.ht = max(B_1.ht, B_2.ht - 0.25 * B.ps)
B.dp = max(B_1.dp, B_2.dp + 0.25 * B.ps)

4) B -> B_1 sup B_2     B_1.ps = B.ps
B_2.ps = 0.6 * B.ps
B.wd = B_1.wd + B_2.wd
B.ht = max(B_1.ht, B_2.ht + 0.6 * B.ps)
B.dp = max(B_1.dp, B_2.dp - 0.6 * B.ps)

5) B -> ( B_1 )         B_1.ps = B.ps
B.wd = B_1.wd
B.ht = B_1.ht
B.dp = B_1.dp

6) B -> text            B.wd = getWd(B.ps, text.lexval)
B.ht = getHt(B.ps, text.lexval)
B.dp = getDp(B.ps, text.lexval)