# Chapter 4 Key Points

###!Differences between LR(0), SLR, LR, LALR

p157: How do LR(0) automata make shift-reduce decisions?Assume that the grammar symbol string γ causes the LR(0) automaton to run from the starting state 0 to some state j. Then if the next input symbol is a and state j has a transition on a, move to a, otherwise perform the reduction.

This method will lead to some wrong reductions, assuming that the reduced symbol is X, but a is not in FOLLOW(X), in which case there will be a problem.So SLR improves on that.

p161: When constructing an SLR analysis table, if [A -> α.] is in I_i, then for all a in FOLLOW(A), set ACTION[i, a] to "Reduction A -> α"

SLR solves the problem of wrong specifications to some extent, but not completely.Because although a will only select the specification in FOLLOW(A), as far as the current state I_i is concerned, not every terminal symbol in FOLLOW(A) can appear after A in state I_i.

p166: In more formal language, I_i must specify exactly which input symbols can follow the handle α so that α can be reduced to A.

LR solves this problem by adding a second component to the term, the lookahead sign.But the new problem is that LR will make the state table extremely large, and LALR is a more economical approach, it has as many states as SLR.

p170: Generally speaking, LALR itemsets can be obtained by merging LR itemsets with the same core itemsets.Although LALR may perform some incorrect reductions, it will eventually catch the error before any new symbols are entered.

### Eliminate ambiguity (p134)

Figure 4-10, how is this elimination method derived?

### Eliminate left recursion (p135)

Why does the algorithm in Figure 4-11 eliminate left recursion in a grammar?

Two conditions need to be met to eliminate recursion:

1. There is no immediate left recursion, that is, there is no production like this A -> Aα .
2. There is no left recursion that can be generated by multi-step derivation.

The result of the loop in Algorithm 3~5 is that the production of the form A_i -> A_m α must satisfy m >= i, which eliminates the possibility of conversion of the form S => Aa => Sda. That is to say, the production starting with A_i cannot be derived from A_m, and there is no possibility of A-i left recursion in A_m α.

**At the same time, it should be noted that:** You only need to process productions like A_i -> A_j α, but not productions like A_i -> α A_j β.

After the loop completes, line 6 eliminates the immediate left recursion in the replaced production.

### Use LR(0) to create the kernel of the LALR(1) itemset (p173)

Spontaneously generated and propagated look-ahead symbols

### CNF and BNF

- [Chomsky normal form](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chomsky_normal_form)
- [Backus Naur Form](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backus%E2%80%93Naur_Form)