# Exercises for Section 8.2

### 8.2.1

Generate code for the following three-address statements assuming all variables are stored in memory locations.

1. x = 1
2. x = a
3. x = a + 1
4. x = a + b
5. The two statements
- x = b * c
- y = a + x

#### answer

1.  LD R1, #1
ST x, R1

2.  LD R1, a
ST x, R1

3.  LD R1, a
ADD R1, R1, #1
ST x, R1

4.  LD R1, a
LD R2, b
ADD R1, R1, R2
ST x, R1

5.  LD R1, b
LD R2, c
MUL R1, R1, R2
LD R3, a
ADD R3, R3, R1
ST y, R3

Note: For question 5, you can insert the sentences `ST x, R1` and `LD R1, x` after the third line of the generated assembly code. These two sentences belong to redundant code (redundant store-load).It is easy to generate this kind of redundant code using a simple code generation strategy. It is slower but correct. There is an optimization (redundant store-load elimination) that specifically handles this problem, so it doesn't matter whether it is generated or not in the answer to this question.

### 8.2.2

Generate code for the following three-address statements assuming a and b are arrays whose elements are 4-byte values.

1. The four-statement sequence

x = a[i]
y = b[j]
a[i] = y
b[j] = x

2. The three-statement sequence

x = a[i]
y = b[i]
z = x * y

3. The three-statement sequence

x = a[i]
y = b[x]
a[i] = y

#### answer

1.  LD R1, i
MUL R1, R1, #4
LD R2, a(R1)
LD R3, j
MUL R3, R3, #4
LD R4, b(R3)
ST a(R1), R2
ST b(R3), R4

2.  LD R1, i
MUL R1, R1, #4
LD R2, a(R1)
LD R1, b(R1)
MUL R1, R2, R1
ST z, R1

3.  LD R1, i
MUL R1, R1, #4
LD R2, a(R1)
MUL R2, R2, #4
LD R2, b(R2)
ST a(R1), R2

### 8.2.3

Generate code for the following three-address sequence assuming that p and q are in memory locations:

y = *q
q = q + 4
*p = y
p = p + 4

#### answer

LD R1, q
LD R2, 0(R1)
ADD R1, R1, #4
ST q, R1
LD R1, p
ST 0(R1), R2
ADD R1, R1, #4
ST p, R1

### 8.2.4

Generate code for the following sequence assuming that x, y, and z are in memory locations:

if x < y goto L1
z = 0
goto L2
L1: z = 1

#### answer

LD R1, x
LD R2, y
SUB R1, R1, R2
BLTZ R1, L1
LD R1, #0
ST z, R1
BR L2
L1: LD R1, #1
ST z, R1

Note: When actually generating the code, the labels will be mapped to specific numerical addresses, but this section has not reached that step yet. Just use the label names in the original question and write them down casually.

### 8.2.5

Generate code for the following sequence assuming that n is in a memory location:

s = 0
i = 0
L1: if i > n goto L2
s = s + i
i = i + 1
goto L1
L2:

#### answer

Long version:

LD R1, #0
ST s, R1
ST i, R1
L1: LD R1, i
LD R2, n
SUB R2, R1, R2
BGTZ R2, L2
LD R2, s
ADD R2, R2, R1
ST s, R2
ADD R1, R1, #1
ST i, R1
BR L1
L2:

Short version:

LD R2, #0
LD R1, R2
LD R3, n
L1: SUB R4, R1, R3
BGTZ R4, L2
ADD R2, R2, R1
ADD R1, R1, #1
BR L1
L2:

Note: Optimization of the short version 1) Eliminate redundant storage-read 2) Extract loop-invariant code 3) Then add register allocation

### 8.2.6

Determine the costs of the following instruction sequences:

1.  LD R0, y
LD R1, z
ADD R0, R0, R1
ST x, R0

2.  LD R0, i
MUL R0, R0, 8
LD R1, a(R0)
ST b, R1

3.  LD R0, c
LD R1, i
MUL R1, R1, 8
ST a(R1),R0

4.  LD R0, p
LD R1, 0(R0)
ST x, R1

5.  LD R0, p
LD R1, x
ST 0(R0), R1

6.  LD R0, x
LD R1, y
SUB R0, R0, R1
BLTZ *R3, R0

#### answer

1. 2 + 2 + 1 + 2 = 7
2. 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8
3. 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8
4. 2 + 2 + 2 = 6
5. 2 + 2 + 2 = 6
6. 2 + 2 + 1 + 1 = 6

Note: The instruction set used in this book does not clearly define the details of all instructions, but it seems that the so-called use of variable names to specify memory addresses actually implies the assumption that these variables are statically allocated, which means that in the actually generated instructions, these variable names will be replaced with their corresponding numeric address constants, and the address is stored in an extra word after the instruction, which counts as one more unit of overhead.

---

### Note

1. Obviously, the content of this section is written very casually. It is recommended that numeric constants should be prefixed with #, except when used in addresses.For example `LD R1, #1` and `ADD R1, R1, #1`.

2. In this book, Ri represents the i-th register.

1. In the process of translating into assembly code, can the value of i be specified arbitrarily (such as R3, R4, R1000) or will there be some restrictions?

Answer: Feel free for now.We will consider the limitation later when it is said that the number of registers is limited.

2. In addition, if R1 shown in the code is no longer needed in the subsequent code, can the new value be loaded into R1?If possible, how do you know that the previous R1 is no longer needed?

Answer: It can be covered.As for how to know whether the previous value is dead, it depends on the def-use chain.This is an important issue for optimization.For example, section 9.2.5 talks about live variable, which is related to this.

3. The assembly code corresponding to b = a[i]:

```
LD R1, i
MUL R1, R1, 8
LD R2, a(R1)
...
```

Why does a not need to be loaded into the register first?

Answer: There is an implicit assumption here: variables are statically allocated and stored.The situation will change later when non-static variables are involved.