# Exercises for Section 3.5

### 3.5.1

Describe how to make the following modifications to the Lex program in Figure 3-23:

1. Add keyword while
2. Convert comparison operators into similar operators in C language
3. Allow the underscore to be treated as an additional letter
4.!Adds a new pattern with token STRING.The pattern consists of a double quote, any character, and a trailing double quote.However, if a double quote appears in the above string, it must be preceded by a backslash, so backslashes in the string will be represented by double backslashes.The lexical value of this lexical unit is the string without the double quotes, and the backslashes used for transitions have been removed.The recognized strings will be stored in a string table.

### 3.5.2

Write a Lex program.This program copies a file and replaces every non-empty sequence of whitespace in the file with a single space.

### 3.5.3

Write a Lex program.This program copies a C program and replaces every instance of the keyword float in the program with double.

### 3.5.4 ！

Write a Lex program.This program converts a file into Pig Latin text.To be clear, assuming the file is a sequence of words separated by whitespace characters, every time you encounter a word:

1. If the first letter is a consonant, move it to the end of the word and add ay.
2. Add ay only to the end of the word if the first letter is a vowel.

All non-letter characters are copied directly to the output without processing.

### 3.5.5 ！

In SQL, keywords and identifiers are case-insensitive.Write a Lex program that recognizes the keywords select, from, and where (in any combination of uppercase and lowercase letters) and the token id.For the purposes of this exercise, you can think of an id as any string of letters and numbers that starts with a letter.You don't have to put identifiers into a symbol table, but where you need to, the install function here differs from the function used to describe case-sensitive identifiers in Figure 3-23.